
# CUDA Implementation of Leibniz Series for Pi Approximation

This repository contains the CUDA implementation of the Leibniz series to approximate the value of Pi. 
There are two versions included:
1. `pi_double.cu` - Double precision implementation.
2. `pi_float.cu` - Single precision implementation.

## Requirements

- NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit (Developed and tested on CUDA 11)
- A CUDA-capable NVIDIA GPU

## Compilation

Compile the code using the NVIDIA CUDA compiler `nvcc`. 

For double precision:
```bash
nvcc pi_double.cu -o pi_double
```

For single precision:
```bash
nvcc pi_float.cu -o pi_float
```

## Execution

Before running the compiled executables, request a GPU resource on a cluster managed with SLURM:

```bash
srun --partition=courses-gpu --nodes=1 --pty --gres=gpu:1 --ntasks=1 --mem=4GB --time=01:00:00 /bin/bash
```
when the GPU resource is available then it would be printed as 
```bash
srun: job xx.... has been allocated resources
```
Type nvidia-smi in bash to see which GPU resource has been allocated
```bash
nvidia-smi
```
Then, you can run the executable specifying the number of iterations as an argument:

```bash
./pi_double 1000000000  # Example for 1 billion iterations for double precision
./pi_float 1000000000   # Example for 1 billion iterations for single precision
```

## Discussion

The Leibniz series for Pi is known for its slow convergence. The implementations provided utilize the power of CUDA GPUs to perform the computation in parallel across many threads, thereby accelerating the computation.

- The double precision version provides higher accuracy but at the potential cost of increased computational resources.
- The single precision version is faster but less accurate, particularly noticeable at higher iteration counts.

Choose the precision based on the accuracy requirements and available GPU resources.

## Source
https://gist.github.com/cmaureir/2479973


