# Optimized Matrix Multiplication

This project includes the implementation of optimized matrix multiplication using dense and sparse matrices, leveraging OpenMP for parallel processing.

## Description

The implementation demonstrates two main approaches:
1. **Dense Matrix Multiplication**:
   - Utilizes blocking/tiling to improve cache efficiency.
   - Employs the transposition of matrix B to enhance data locality and access patterns during multiplication.

2. **Sparse Matrix Multiplication**:
   - Utilizes a compressed row storage (CRS) format to handle sparse matrices efficiently.
   - Optimizes operations by skipping computations involving zero elements.

## Create a file
The c program is written after the creation of c file.
```bash
nano matmul_optimized.c
```

## Compilation
To compile the code, use the following command which includes flags for enabling OpenMP:
```bash
gcc -o matmul_optimized matmul_optimized.c -fopenmp
```
## Running
Execute the compiled binary with:
```bash
./matmul_optimized
```
## Output

The program will output the timing results for both dense and sparse matrix multiplication, alongside some results from the computation to verify correct execution.

## Comparison

The code also compares its performance against an implementation using the OpenBLAS library, highlighting the differences in execution times and showcasing the effectiveness of manual optimizations.

## Sources
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60360361/matrix-multiplication-using-openmp-c-collapsing-all-the-loops
https://forums.developer.nvidia.com/t/sparse-matrix-matrix-multiplication/17146/3
https://github.com/muneeb706/Sparse-Matrix-Vector-Mul/blob/main/spmv-openmp.cpp
https://github.com/darshan14/matrix-multiplication-openMP/blob/master/MatrixMultiplication.c

